**Logical Operators**
### @explicitHints true

  

## Step 1 @unplugged

  

**Logical Operators** are used to manipulate or combine Boolean (true or false) values. In JavaScript, we mostly use three logical operators:

1. AND(&&)

2. OR(||) *This key is the "pipe" symbol that shares with the back slash above the enter key on your keyboard*

3. NOT(!)

These logical operators perform operations on expressions, and will return Boolean values as a result. Continue on to see some of these operators in action.

## Step 2

The AND (&&) Operator will return true **only if both operands are true**, otherwise it will return false. Using the temple below, let's test an AND operator by comparing two values from the variables below. Write in a player.say command, then use the logical operators to test. 

```template
let x=5
let y=7
let z=10







```
#### ~ tutorialhint

```javascript

    let x=5
    let y=7
    let z=10
    player.say(x>y&&z>x)
```


## Step 3

Press the green start button to test your code, then come back to this screen.


## Step 4

You should have seen your player return "true or false" in the chat window. The AND operator needed both comparisons to be correct to return "true" to the console. The OR (||) Operator needs one operand or the other to be correct in order to do the same. Let's use the same variables as before, and test the OR operator. Enter the same variables as before in the space below, then continue on.

Remember, the (||) key is (Pipe symbol) is located in the same key as the backslash key, above the enter key on the keyboard. 

#### ~ tutorialhint

```javascript

    let x=5
    let y=7
    let z=10
   ```


## Step 5

After the variables, let's add in an OR operator after a player.say command to test the Boolean response. Add a player.say followed by (operand1 || operand2) and choose how you would like to compare.

#### ~ tutorialhint
```javascript

    let x=5
    let y=7
    let z=10
    player.say(x <y || z>x)
   ```

## Step 6

Now run your code by pressing the green start button, and return to this screen.

## Step 7
You should have gotten back a Boolean in the chat of True or False, depending on the comparisons you chose. 

Finally, the NOT(!) operator negates a Boolean value. This means that if a comparison would return false, adding the NOT operator would return True, and vice versa. 

Continue on to the next activity. 

