# Expert Coding using JavaScript - Lesson 2 Activity 2.4
### @explicitHints true

  

## Step 1 @unplugged

Assignment Operators are an imperative aspect of writing lines of code in JavaScript. You will continue to learn and use assignment operators throughout the entire course. Assignment Operators are used to assign values to variables. They combine the task of assigning a value with an arithmetic or logical operation. Assignment operators allow you to update the value of a variable based on its previous value. 

Continue on to learn about different assignment operators.

## Step 2 @unplugged

Let's try out different types of assignment operators. 
One assignment operator you have already used many times. 
**Assignment  operator (=):** This assignment operator is used to assign a value to a variable. You have used many of these operators when declaring variables. 

## Step 3
Another assignment operator is the addition assignment operator. 
**Addition assignment operator (+=):** This operator adds the value on the right side to the existing value of the variable, and assigns the results back to the variable.
Let's practice the addition assignment operator.  Start by declaring the variable x and assign it the value of 5 and declare the variable y and assign it the value 7. 

#### ~ tutorialhint
```javascript
let x = 5
let y = 7

```

## Step 4
Next, use the addition assignment operator to add the value of y to the current value of x. Then have the player say x. 


#### ~ tutorialhint
```javascript
let x = 5
let y = 7
x += y
player.say(x)
```
Run the code and see what happens. Then move onto the next step. 

## Step 5
You should have seen the number 12 appear in the chat. 

Next, let's use the subtraction assignment operator.  
**Subtraction assignment operator (-=):** This operator subtracts the value on the right side from the existing value of the variable and assigns results back to the variable.

Working off the previous code, use the subtraction assignment operator to subtract the value of y to the current value of x (which is now 12). 

#### ~ tutorialhint
```javascript
let x = 5
let y = 7
x += y
player.say(x)
x -= y
player.say(x)
```

Run the code and see what happens. Then move onto the next step. 

## Step 6
You should have seen the number 12 appear and then number 5.  The value of x is now 5. 
 
There is also a multiplication assignment operator (*=) and Division assignment operator (/=) that work in the same way as the addition and subtraction assignment operators. 

Let's continue to add onto the code we have and use these assignment operators. 
Using the current code, use the multiplication assignment operator to multiply the value of x to the current value of y.  Have the player say y.  

#### ~ tutorialhint
```javascript
let x = 5
let y = 7
x += y
player.say(x)
x -= y
player.say(x)
y *= x
player.say(y)
```
Run the code to see what happens and then move on to the next step. 

## Step 7
You should have seen numbers appear in this order: 12, 5, 35

And finally, use the division assignment operator to divide the value of x to the current value of y. Then have the player say y. 

#### ~ tutorialhint
```javascript
let x = 5
let y = 7
x += y
player.say(x)
x -= y
player.say(x)
y *= x
player.say(y)
y /= x
player.say(y)
```

Run the code to see what happens and then move on to the next step. 

## Step 8
You should have seen numbers appear in this order: 12, 5, 35, 7
If you did, continue on to the next NPC. If not, go back and try the code again. 